---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "gitea_user Resource - gitea"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Manages a Gitea user account. This resource allows you to create, update, and delete user accounts in your Gitea instance. Requires admin privileges.
---

# gitea_user (Resource)

Manages a Gitea user account. This resource allows you to create, update, and delete user accounts in your Gitea instance. Requires admin privileges.

## Example Usage

```terraform
resource "gitea_user" "test_user" {
  username = "test"
  email    = "test@gitea.local"
  password = "testpassword123"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `email` (String) E-Mail Address of the user.
- `login_name` (String) The login name can differ from the username.
- `password` (String, Sensitive) Password to be set for the user.
- `username` (String) Username of the user to be created.

### Optional

- `active` (Boolean) Flag indicating if the user account should be enabled.
- `admin` (Boolean) Flag indicating if the user should have administrator privileges.
- `allow_create_organization` (Boolean) Whether the user is allowed to create organizations.
- `allow_git_hook` (Boolean) Whether the user is allowed to create Git hooks.
- `allow_import_local` (Boolean) Whether the user is allowed to import local repositories.
- `description` (String) A description of the user.
- `force_password_change` (Boolean) Flag if the user defined password should be overwritten or not.
- `full_name` (String) Full name of the user.
- `location` (String) The location of the user.
- `max_repo_creation` (Number) The maximum number of repositories this user can create. `-1` for unlimited.
- `must_change_password` (Boolean) Flag if the user should change the password after first login.
- `prohibit_login` (Boolean) Flag if the user should not be allowed to log in (bot user).
- `restricted` (Boolean) Whether the user has restricted access.
- `send_notification` (Boolean) Flag to send a notification about the user creation to the defined email.
- `visibility` (String) Visibility of the user. Can be `public`, `limited` or `private`.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

The [`terraform import` command](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/cli/commands/import) can be used, for example:

```shell
# Import an existing user by username
terraform import gitea_user.example testuser
```
